>> iPhone Application Design Using Interface Builder.
My name is Rob Marini.
I'm an engineer on the Interface Builder team and I'll be
joined later today by one of my colleagues, Matt Gamble.
Today we're here to talk about applications and if you
look at the whole gamut of applications that are available
on the iPhone, you can basically boil them
down into three distinct types of apps.
The first of which are Single Screen applications.
We also have Hierarchical applications
and Tab-based applications.
Today I'll be talking to you about Single
Screen applications, but before we do that,
we need to talk about some basics
involved in iPhone application design.
More specifically, we have to talk about View Controllers.
View Controller are fundamental to iPhone app development.
They're responsible for the management of a Single
View or a view hierarchy, and as a developer,
your job is to provide a View Controller with its view.
You can do that either through the
Load View mechanism or more commonly
and more simply, by using an Interface Builder document.
The other great thing about View Controllers is
that they make your life much easier
in dealing with memory management.
They respond to these things called memory warnings, so
that if you're running in a situation where you have a lot
of things going on on the system, you can let go of some
of the things that you don't need so that you can ensure
that your application keeps running smoothly.
If we look at the Maps application
that I showed you earlier,
you can see that there is this single screen that's managed
by a View Controller, and it essentially loads this view
onto the screen that might come
from an Interface Builder document.
And very commonly, there is a one-to-one mapping
between view Controllers and Interface Builder documents
and this pattern is very powerful because it allows you
to run as performant as possible and to ensure that things
like lazy loading and unloading are available to you.
There are two ways to create View Controllers.
One is what we call an on-demand View Controller, and these
are typically done in code and they're really flexible.
You can create them in response to user actions.
And the nice thing about that is that you don't need to
know ahead of time if you're actually going to need them.
And later today, Matt Gamble will be
talking in great detail about that.
The other way to create a View Controller is in Interface
Builder, and we call that a Static View Controller.
These are useful for your initial View Controllers.
You typically see them inside of your
Main Window, Interface Builder document,
and the nice thing about them obviously
is that you don't need to write code.
Going back to the Maps app, if we break it down, we
can see that it has two Interface Builder documents.
The first of which is this Main Window, Interface
Builder File; and looking at that document contents,
we can see that there is this View Controller.
This is one of the Static View
Controllers that we talked about earlier.
And by putting it inside of our IB document, we A, know
that it shares the life of our window which is the life
of the whole application and we don't
actually need to write this in code.
If we open that up, we can see that it loads
its view from another Interface Builder file.
This maps View Controller.
So if we look at that, the first thing that you
probably noticed is this thing called File Zoner;
and File Zoner is really a reference that allows
you to link to the thing that manages the view.
It doesn't actually exist inside of your Interface
Builder document, it exists somewhere else.
And File Zoner is typically where you would put the
things that are going to manage the view contents
that are being presented as part
of your Interface Builder document.
And perhaps most importantly, there's usually an
outlet going from File Zoner to your view contents
of the IB document and that lets the View Controller know
that that is the thing that it
should be presenting on screen.
If we look at the view file, you can see that we have the
Interface Builder representation of our Maps application.
We have a Search bar, a Mapview,
and a Toolbar with some buttons.
You might be wondering at this point, why
do we have two interface builder documents?
We only have a single screen of content.
And the reason goes back to something that I mentioned
earlier, which was lazy loading and unloading.
For a single screen of content, this might not be
particularly useful, but after you put your app on the store
and sell a few million copies, you might want to
add features to it and at that point, this is great.
It also enables refactorability, which is something
that we'll be taking advantage of later on by means
of these clean separations between the
things that really are your application
and the things that are essentially every application.
Today we're going to be building applications.
We're going to be building one application, three
different ways, starting with a Single Screen variant.
And their application is a to-do list.
So this Single Screen version,
it's the details of a single task.
Later we'll expand upon that and have a list
of tasks and the details that go with them.
This is a hierarchical application and then we'll
expand upon that, and present different views
of our data by using a Tab Bar Controller.
So right now, I'm going to show you how
to build a Single Screen application.
So, here I have the lovely new Start Up screen for Xcode
on Snow Leopard and I'm going to create a new project.
Now I could create a View-based application and get a lot
of the things that I'm going to do right now for free,
but I'm going to start with a Window-based
application, just so I can show you everything
that goes in to one of our templates as well.
So, I'll create that.
I'm going to save it on the Desktop.
Name it "To-Do" and here we go.
(Make that a little bigger.)
We can see here that we have our
app delegate and our Main Window zip
and this is a very bare bones project as I mentioned.
So I'm going to cheat a bit and drag in some resources.
The first thing that I'm going to need are some images
and a property list, which I'll explain in just a second.
Drag these in and add them to our project.
So the property list is essentially just some
storage that I've used to predefine some tasks.
You don't have to watch me type them in.
Background image, a garbage can for
maybe one of our chores and a check mark.
I also have some code that I previously wrote.
Drag that in as well.
Say Yes, add them.
And here we have a model and a controller.
I'm going to take a look at the
model right now very briefly.
It's just a task, has an image, a title, summary
and a state saying whether it's complete.
There's this TD Task Vendor Class and this is
essentially just a helper class that I wrote that will go
through our property list of tasks and
return it to our project as an array.
Really straightforward.
Let's take a look at the View Controller.
So right away, you can see that I have a task and I
have some IB outlets and the View Controller's job
in this case is essentially to take the contents of
the task and allow me to represent them on screen.
It's acting as the intermediary between our
Interface Builder document and our model.
Take a look at the implementation file.
Here you can see I have some memory management code,
just releasing them when the controller gets
de-alloced and synthesizing the properties.
And the two probably most interesting methods
are View Did Load and View Did Unload.
The View Did Load gets called when my view is
actually displayed, just before the view is displayed
on the screen really, and here all I'm doing is setting the
images, the text and the check button inside of the task
on screen to be representative of their state in our model.
And I also have this View Did Unload method,
which is new in iPhone 3.0 and it's called
when the view is no longer relevant to what's being
displayed on the screen and so we just clear things
up in there and give the rest of
our applications some more memory.
And I also have an IB action method here and just
as a reminder, by saying something is an IB action,
you're telling Interface Builder that this is something
that you might want to be using there, for instance,
when I touch a button, and that's
exactly what I'm using it for.
It's called Change Task State, and this is what allows
us to check and uncheck the done status of our task.
So now, I'm going to go ahead and add a new file
and I'm going to create a user interface file.
I'm going to do a View ZIP, go ahead,
and call that TDDetailViewController.
It's a lot harder spelling on stage than it looks.
I'm going to open that up in Interface Builder.
Here we go.
So, here you can see I have my
document window and my design surface.
So I'm going to start by dragging in an image view, because
I know I have that background image that I want to use.
So I'll add that here and in the identity inspect, or rather
in the attributes inspector, I'm just going to go ahead
and pick an image from our project, the To-Do background.
There. And I'm also going to change the view's
drawing mode to be Top and what this will allow us
to do is you can see we have a lot of detail on
the top of our image and not a lot on the bottom.
So in the case that where perhaps get a phone call and go
back to our application, we get that green bar on the top.
Right now, we could actually just
push the view down a little.
But I had some more things that I needed to
add, so I'm going to go ahead and do those now.
Needed a button, so I'm going to drag that
in here and we'll just put that there.
Now I'm going to change this from being a rounded
rectangle to make a custom button and I'm going
to change the Selected State, have a
background image of the check mark.
OK. Now I'm going to add another image view, because
remember I had that picture of the lovely garbage can.
I'm going to stick that kind of here, resize it a little,
and I know that I need it to be 64x64 and I could fiddle
with this for a while or I could go to the Size
Inspector and I'll give you a brief tour of this.
Here you can see we have the Size and Position section.
So I want to pin it to the top left and resize
it from there and I know it has to be 64x64.
Hit Enter and I resized it.
And now I'll manually move that
over with the keyboard about there.
Now I had a title and the thing that
probably is best for a title is a Label.
So I'm going to drag one out, put it here and I am going
to make it the width of our text area in our image.
And I also had a summary.
So I'm going to go ahead and drag in a Text View for that.
Maybe stick that about there and resize that as well.
So there, we've just built our interface.
Now we actually want it to do something and for that we're
going to go to File Zoner and the important thing here is
as I mentioned earlier, File Zoner is a link in this case,
to the View Controller that actually
has the outlets in action.
So we need to let Interface Builder
know what File Zoner is in this case.
And if you would use the View Based Application
Template, this would have been set up for you.
So I'm going to go to the Identity
Inspector and change the class of File Zoner
to be TD Detail View Controller
and now I'm going to wire it up.
Oh, and in Xcode I actually added these into these files.
So I'm just going to stick those into classes, very quickly.
[ No speaking ]
It's never a demo unless you do something wrong.
OK. So now if I look at the outlets in HUD, I can see
that I have a list of all of my outlooks and actions,
so I'm just going to go ahead and drag from our
outlets to what they need to be connected to on screen.
So Complete Task button, well I'm
going to add that to the button.
And you might notice that like I can drag this over
the image and it won't actually offer it or allow me
to connect it, because it knows that it wants a button.
So go ahead and connect it to the
button, connect that to the Image View.
There's this Search Display Controller, which I'm not
going to connect now but Matt will be talking about later.
We have a Summary Text view, a Title Label,
and extremely important here is this view.
So I'm going to connect that to our view and this is of
course telling the View Controller that this is the thing
that it needs to present to the user when
the Interface Builder document loads.
And I also have to connect an action to this button.
So I'll just go ahead and do that
and set it to Change Task state.
There. I'm going to Save this, go back to Xcode and at
this point I'm going to go to the Application Delegate,
because there are some things I need to do here
to let it know about our initial View Controller.
So first I need to actually create an
instance variable for the View Controller.
There. And now I need to create a
property for it and send it as an IB outlet
so that I can reference it in Interface Builder.
Save that.
Go to the Implementation file and
there are some things I need to import.
I'm just going to replace this synthesize because
I have my own and there are these two methods,
Application Did Finish Launching and DeAlloc.
I'm going to go ahead and replace those as
well and I'll give you a brief tour of this.
I'm creating a vendor, getting the tasks from the property
list, adding, creating a task from one of the tasks
in the property list, setting them to be the task
that I create to be the task of my View Controller,
setting my View Controller's view to be a sub-view
of my window, and then doing some memory management.
It's very straightforward.
I'll save this file and I'm going
to go ahead and Build and Run.
And I typed something wrong.
"TD" there.
OK. Now I'm going to go ahead and Build and Run.
And as you can see, we see nothing.
Well why do we see nothing?
Remember that I mentioned earlier
that there were two files in the Maps.
Well we only worked with one here, so now we're going to
look at the other one, which is this Main Window file.
So I'm going to double-click to launch that in IB and
I'm going to hide Xcode for now and hide the simulator.
If you look in the contents here, you can see
that we have a window which funnily enough,
looks like what we saw in the simulator
and we have our App Delegate.
Remember that I mentioned before that
there were these Static View Controllers?
Well this is the perfect place for one because
I know that it's going to exist for the lifetime
of my application, which is the lifetime of the window.
So I'm going to add one here and it's important to know here
that we don't want the class to be a UI View Controller,
we want it to be our TD Detail View
Controller because this is actually
where our TD Detail View Controller will be initialized.
So I'm going to hit Enter and that lets Interface Builder
know that when it comes time to create this View Controller,
that's the class that it should be using.
And I had an outlet in the App Delegate for the
View Controller, so I'm going to Control Click there
and I have this initial View Controller, I'll
drag that there and it's important to remember
that we have our interface in a separate Interface
Builder file so we need to let the View Controller know
that it should be loading the view from that file.
So I'll go to the Attributes Inspector here and there's
a field called Nib Name, so I'll set that to be the name
of the nib, which was TD Detail View Controller;
and Interface Builder communicates very seamlessly
with Xcode so it knows what the files are already.
It hopefully auto-completed it for me.
So hit Enter to save this.
Go back to Xcode and now I will Run.
And now you can see our interface.
Working check box, et cetera.
And this is displaying the contents from
that first task of our property list,
on the screen, in the interface that we designed.
OK. That was our demo of building
a Single Screen application.
What did we just talk about?
Well, the first thing to remember is that a View Controller
is responsible for a Single View or a Single View Hierarchy.
And so that's something that you typically provide to the
View Controller, inside of your Interface Builder document.
The default behavior of a View Controller is
to load its view from Interface Builder files.
And by doing so you get to avoid writing a lot of code.
If any of you were here in the session that immediately
preceded this, you saw that just by using Interface Builder,
we were able to reduce our code size by 42%.
And there are two ways to create View Controllers
that I mentioned: Static and On Demand,
and both of them work seamlessly with
Interface Builder documents as their views.
And of course by creating clean separations in your code,
between the things that are important to your application
and the things that are important to every application
but are more or less shared, you can allow Lazy Loading
and Unloading and stay as performant as possible
on the iPhone, which is still an embedded device.
At this point I'm going to hand it over to Matt Gamble
who will guide you through the rest of our tour.
>> So we've seen the Single Screen Application type,
let's now take a look at Hierarchical Applications.
And a great example of a Hierarchical
Application is the Contacts app on the phone.
The Contacts app manages a hierarchy of contacts going from
the groups that the user has, then looking at the contacts
that make up that group and then finally, looking
at the individual details of a particular contact.
Well how would we design this?
When you're dealing with hierarchies, your first
thought should be a UI Navigation Controller.
And the UI Navigation Controller manages this
hierarchy, by managing a stack of View Controllers.
In this case, the bottom of this stack, or the Root
View Controller, would be the Groups View Controller
and it would presumably be loading its interface,
which in this case is this table view,
from an Interface Builder document.
Now when the user selects one of the cells in
this table, indicating that they wish to navigate
to this more fine-grained view, then the Table
View Controller would message its delegate,
which in this case would be the Groups View Controller.
The Groups View Controller would create
an instance of a Contacts View Controller
and it would then push this Contacts View Controller to the
top of the Navigation Controller's View Controller stack
and then the Navigation Controller would
take care of animating out one view,
indicating that the new View Controller should
load its view and then animating that into screen
in the slide motion that we're all very familiar with.
When the user selects Individual
Contact, same thing would happen again.
This time the Contacts View Controller would
instantiate the Details View Controller,
push it to the top of the Navigation Controller stack.
The Navigation Controller would then
animate out one view and in the other view
and we would see the details for that particular contact.
Now as we heard before, when you're
working with View Controllers,
you will usually have your view designed
in an Interface Builder document.
So for each one of these particular views, we'll
have a corresponding Interface Builder Document,
where we can lay out our interface exactly
the way we wish to see it at run time.
Now since the Navigation Controller will be
needed for the entire life of our application,
as well as the Groups View Controller, which
would be the Root View Controller and the base
of this Navigation Controller's stack of View Controllers,
we can embed the Groups View Controller directly
within the Navigation Controller and
then place the Navigation Controller
as a Static View Controller in our Main Window document.
Bringing our total number of Interface Builder
documents to four and this saves us a bit
of code that we would have to write otherwise.
As for the two remaining View Controllers, as
we mentioned we would be instantiating these
when the user is selecting one of
the individual cells of a table.
So we'll simply create these in code as needed.
So right now, let's take that demo
that we worked with earlier
and now move it to more of a Hierarchical Application.
So to begin with I'm just going to quit the simulator
and return to our To-Do Application, Xcode project.
So let's go back to the Main Window Interface Builder
document and take a look at that in Interface Builder.
Now we saw that Rob connected the initial View
Controller outlet to our Detail View Controller,
but as we're now going to be using a building a
Hierarchical Application, we'll be using a table view
to manage a number of various to-do tasks.
So we won't actually know which particular
task the user would like to look at,
as it will depend on which one they select in the table.
So our Initial View Controller will no longer be this Detail
View Controller, as we'll be creating this on demand later.
So I'm just going to go ahead and delete this.
And I'm going to drag out a Navigation Controller from
the Interface Builder Library and as this is going
to be our Initial View Controller, I'm going
to Control click on the To-Do App Delegate
and reconnected the Initial View Controller
outlet to our Navigation Controller.
Now I'm going to change the document window to the Outline
Mode, so we can take a look a little bit more in depth
as to what we are getting when we drag this
Navigation Controller from the library.
If we disclose the Navigation Controller, we'll see
that it comes with a Navigation bar as we would expect,
but it also comes with a Root View
Controller already embedded within it.
And if we look at the Identity Inspector, we'll see
that the class is just set to UI View Controller.
Well, we're going to have to make a
few changes here as we would want this
to be the View Controller that
would be managing our Table view.
So I'm going to Save our changes
here and return to our Xcode project.
So I'm going to begin by adding a new
class to our Xcode project and I'm going
to go to the File Menu and create a New File.
And we're creating a Cocoa Touch class here as
we're going to be creating the View Controller
that will manage our table and if I were to select
Objective-C class and disclose this Popup button,
we can see that Xcode offers to create a
sub-class of many different types for us;
and if we were to do this it would come with some
Interface Builder documents pre-configured and even some
of the many methods that we would need already stubbed
out and some completely implemented, which is great.
But for explanatory purposes here, I'm going to
go ahead and start with a sub-class of NS Object.
Hit Next and this is going to be our Table View,
so I'm going to called this TD Table View
Controller and Rob wasn't kidding about the typing.
OK, here we have our Table View Controller.
Now we said that we want this to be a sub-class of UI Table
View Controller, which is a sub-class of UI View Controller
that UIKit provides, that makes it
a lot easier to handle table views.
So instead of making this a sub-class of NS Object,
I'm going to change this to UI Table View Controller
and since UI Table View Controller is coming from the
UIKit, I will be replacing this import with UIKit.
All right?
I'll save those changes and next, since
we're creating a new View Controller, well,
the next step would be to create an Interface
Builder document for this View Controller.
And so to do that I'll go to our Resources
folder and again, go to File, Create a New File.
This time I'll create a user interface file and again, so
that we're going to see everything that's happening here,
I'm going to go with just an empty
Interface Builder document.
Again call this TD Table View Controller and finish.
So if we take a look at this document in Interface Builder,
I'm just going to double-click it
and let's go ahead and Hide Others.
We'll see that all we have is the
File Zoner and First Responder,
we haven't actually added anything to this document yet.
Well, as we know that this is going to be
the Interface Builder document associated
with our new Table View Controller class, I'm going to
Select File Zoner and indicate this to Interface Builder
by selecting our TD Table View Controller.
Next we're going to need a table view.
So I'll go back to the Interface Builder library
and drag out an instance of the Table view.
And as we know that we want this Table
view to be the view that is loaded
when our Table View Controller sub-class presents its
interface, I'm going to go ahead and Control-click
on the File Zoner to bring up the Connections
Panel and then drag from the View Well
over to our Table View and make that connection.
Now if I double-click on this Table View to open it on
the design surface, we can see that Interface Builder, oh,
grabbed the wrong one there, we can see that Interface
Builder has added some predefined data to sort
of give us an idea of what this would look like.
Well to give us an even better idea of what this is
going to look like, since we know that this will be
in a Navigation Controller, I can go to the Attributes
Inspector for the table view and then go down here
to this third section from the top, the Simulated User
Interface Elements and as this table view will be embedded
in the Navigation Controller, which as we saw will have
a Navigation bar, we can go ahead and change this top bar
to Navigation bar and this gives us a better understanding
of how this will actually look when
the user is interacting with it.
Now we've also heard a lot about how searches
come into lots of the applications on the iPhone
and even to the entire system in the form of Spotlight.
Well let's make sure to add Search
to our application as well.
And Interface Builder makes this very easy by
adding not only a Search bar to the library,
but also a Search bar with a pre-configured
Search Display Controller.
So if I drag this from the library and over to our
table view, we'd like to make it the header of our table
in a similar manner as the Contacts Application and we
can see that again, Interface Builder makes this easy
by giving us a little drop highlight here, indicating
that this will become the header of the table.
So if I drop this in here, we can see
it's now set as the header of our table
and we also gained this Search Display
Controller object in our document window.
Well let's Control-click to bring up the Connections
Panel and we can see that there's a number of connections,
most of which end in "delegate' or 'data source,'
and since we indicated to Interface Builder
that the object loading this Interface Builder
document would be a sub-class of UI View Controller,
Interface Builder has gone ahead and made some educated
guesses and connected all these outlets to File Zoner,
as most times you would have one class be acting as the
data source and delegate for the Search Display Controller.
Well that's exactly what we want.
So instead of wiring all that up, we'll just Save this
and now let's go back to Xcode and actually implement some
of these things we've been talking about.
So back in Xcode I'm going to navigate to
our TD Table View Controller header file
and we see it's rather blank right now.
Well first I'm going to add some of the
instance variables that we're going to need.
And this first one and its predicate, it's our filter
predicate, we'll actually be using this more later
so we'll go ahead and looked at our Filtered
Tasks Array and this is simply an array
of the tasks that we'll be displaying in our table.
And finally we have another NS predicate and
this is our search predicate and this is the one
that we will construct using the information
that the user enters into our search bar
so we can know to filter our results appropriately.
We're also going to have some properties-we'll have
four properties, ones to match our instance variables
for our filter predicate, filtered tasks and search
predicate and we'll also have a read only property
for our search results and this will be the collection
of tasks that match the predicate that we built
from what the user typed into our search bar.
All right, that's great.
So I'm going to Save this.
And I'm going to go over to our TD Table
View Controller Implementation file.
So first, a little memory management.
Add or DeAlloc method, making sure
to release our instance variables.
And then as we had four properties,
we're going to have to declare them here
so we'll be synthesizing the filter predicate,
filtered tasks and search predicate properties
and we're actually going to have a little bit more work
in our filtered tasks method and we're going to check
and see if we've already instantiated it and if not
we'll see if we have a filter predicate If we do,
then we'll filter the task that we get back from the Shared
Task Vendor, otherwise we'll simply get a copy of the tasks.
Well since we'll be using the TD Task Vendor
class, I'm going to add an import statement.
Now we saw in the header file, I added four properties.
But I've only synthesized three.
Well we're actually going to be declaring one of them
as dynamic, meaning that we'll supply the implementation
of the method ourselves and as this
was marked as a read only property,
we only need to implement the getter for this property.
And our getter simply acts a lot like our filtered tasks,
checking to see if we have a search predicate and if we do,
making sure to filter our tasks otherwise just
returning the array of tasks that we have on hand.
Now you saw that I dragged in a UI Table
View into our interface and a table view.
Using a table view in your application
deserves a little bit more explanation.
When you're using a table view, the table view has both an
object acting as a data source and another as its delegate.
Now the data source is an object that helps the table view
populate itself with the data that you'll be wanting to show
to the user and the delegate is an object
that configures some more specific behavior
and maybe adjusts some of the options
and how things will look.
Well as we made our sub-class here a sub-class of
UI Table View Controller, this class will be acting
as both the delegate and the data source for our
table view that we added in Interface Builder.
So I'm going to go and add these
properties or add these implementations.
First, we're going to need a little helper method
to distinguish between some of the different kinds
of tasks we have and this is tasks for table view.
You might be asking, why do we need to distinguish this?
We only saw one table view get
dragged into Interface Builder.
And that's true, I only dragged one
out and that would be the table view
that belongs to our Table View Controller sub-class.
Well the Search Display Controller also uses a
table view when it's showing the lists of tasks
that will match the search results that
the user entered into the search bar.
It'll present those in its own table view
so that the user can then select from there.
So to make sure that we're returning the correct
tasks, we're going to check and see if the table passed
in is our table that we configured in Interface Builder.
If it is, then we'll know we need to return our set
of tasks, otherwise we'll return the search results.
So now onto the table view data source protocol and the
first method we'll be implementing is the Table View Number
of Rows and Section method, where we'll need to return
simply the number of rows in the section of our table view.
And as our table is the standard style rather
than the group style, we'll have only one section.
So we will return the count of the
task for the corresponding table.
The second method requires a little bit more work and
this is the Table View Cell for Row with Index path.
Now again, it's another part of using table
view that requires a little bit of explanation,
and that is the fact that it recycles the cells that it uses
to populate its table, only ever having enough in memory
to display the cells that are necessary
on screen at that particular moment.
Then has a recycling mechanism that allows you to
reuse cells that have either fallen off the top
or dropped off the bottom and then you can
simply reset the information in those cells
and use them again rather than
allocating an entirely new object.
So we're going to take advantage of that here.
So first we'll get the corresponding task at this index
path for the correct table and then we'll ask the table
to de-que a reusable cell that matches
the identifier that we'll pass in.
And this allows, gives the table a chance to give
us a recycled cell that matches our identifier.
If we get, if we do not have a recycled cell to use at
this point, we'll have to actually create, allocate,
and init one ourselves using the Init with Style Reuse
Identifier Method, and for the style we'll be passing
in the table view Cell Style sub-title, which has
a nice looking title and then a somewhat smaller
and different colored sub-title underneath.
Looks very nice.
And we'll be passing in our reuse identifier to be sure that
we can indicate the correct type of cell we wish to reuse
when we are asking the table to de-que one.
Now regardless of whether we're reusing a cell or we've
created a new one, we'll have to set some of the properties,
and in this case we will be setting the text of
the cell's text label to the title of our task
and we will be setting the text of the cell's detail
text label to whether or not the task has been completed.
And again, since we'll be using this TD Task class for
the first time, I'm going to go back up to the top here
and make sure to add that import statement.
So those were those data source methods from that
table view data source protocol that I mentioned,
but we haven't done anything with that
delegate protocol that I'd talked about.
So here it is.
The only method for the table view delegate protocol that
we'll be implementing is the Table View Did Select row
and index path method and this is our chance to react to
the user selecting one of the cells in our table view.
And in this case what we want to have happen
is similar to with the contacts application,
they select the row in the table and then our detail
view that Rob created earlier would animate into place.
So we'll get the appropriate task and
then make sure to create an instance
of the Detail View Controller that Rob mentioned earlier.
And we'll use the init with Nib
name, making sure to pass in the name
of the Interface Builder document that Rob slaved over.
And then we'll set the task to our current task and
then set the title to the title of the current task.
And then we'll make sure to push this View Controller to the
top of the Navigation Controller's View Controller stack,
indicating that we do want it to
perform the side-sliding animation.
All right, since we used our TD Detail View Controller for
the first time, I'm just going to jump up to the top here
and make sure to add that import statement.
All right, returning back to where we were.
There's one final method we need to
add here and we have actually not dealt
with our Search Display Controller very much
yet, other than determining which task to use.
So we have one method that we'll be using
and this is another Delegate protocol,
this time the SearchBarDelegate Protocol
and this method, Search Bar Text Change,
simply informs us that the user has changed
the text that they had in the search bar.
In this case we'll want to make sure to update
our search predicate to reflect the search text
that the user has entered and our predicate will
simply match the title using a case insensitive search.
So let's Save our changes here.
And let's go back to the Main Window
document in Interface Builder.
And I'll just hide the others.
So I mentioned when we dragged out this
Navigation Controller, that it came with a sorry,
Root View Controller already embedded within it.
But we also mentioned that this was
simply a vanilla UI View Controller.
Well, we would like this instead to be
our new TD Table View Controller class.
So in the Class Popup Button, I'll simply
Select our TD Table View Controller.
If we look at the editor for the Navigation
Controller, we'll see that it actually says,
Root View Controller right in the navigation bar.
Now Interface Builder is making sure to display in
the navigation bar of our Navigation Controller,
the title of the navigation item more specifically
of the navigation item of our Root View Controller,
which we have just modified to be our Table View Controller.
Now, we certainly don't want it to say Root View
Controller, so I can simply go to the editor, double-click,
select this text and replace it with something
that makes a little bit more sense in our case.
So I'll save these changes and one
more time, let's return to Xcode.
Now at the end of his demo, Rob added a few lines to
our To-Do App delegate and we're actually not going
to be needing those any longer, as we're using our
Static View Controller, our Navigation Controller,
embedded directly within our Main Window document.
And as we'll be creating our Detailed View Controller
dynamically in response to users selecting a row
in the table, we don't need to configure
it in Application Did Finish Launching.
So I'm going to just get rid of these top four lines
and we also won't be needing these import statements.
Save these changes and let's Build and Run.
Here it is.
We see we have our tasks all set up here,
showing in our Navigation Controller.
And it looks like I didn't save some changes that we
made, since we don't seem to have our search bar here.
So I'm going to Quit this and return to
Interface Builder for just one moment.
And make sure to go back to our Table
View Controller here and make sure
that we have this all set the way that we need.
All right.
What I didn't do here was I didn't indicate to Interface
Builder that we'll be needing to be using the view
that we created in our other Interface Builder document.
So in the Nib name, we'll have to
make sure to tell it that we want
to use the TD Table View Controller
Interface Builder document.
Save these changes.
Returning to Xcode, we should see something
more along the lines of what we wanted.
So here we see all our tasks, in the table view.
We can perform a search.
All right, that works great.
What about something else?
Oh, yes, I want to make sure to do that.
If we select one of the tasks, we can see that the
detailed view that Rob created earlier animates into place
and everything is working exactly the way we want.
So let's take a look at some of
the key points from this demo.
The first of which is we saw that we could
save ourselves writing a little bit of code
by adding our Static View Controllers, in our case the
Navigation Controller and its Root View Controller,
directly into our Main Window document in Interface Builder.
And we also saw that when the user selects one of the
rows of our table, we can just dynamically instantiate one
of our Detail View Controllers right in that method and then
push it on to Navigation Controller's View Controller stack
and have it animate into place in
the manner we're all familiar with.
So the final type of application design that we'll
be discussing today is the Tabbed Application.
And a great example of the Tabbed
Application is the Clocks App on the phone.
With the Clocks App, we've got four distinct pieces of
functionality that are all related in that they have to do
with time, so it makes sense for them all to be in the
same application, but there's no hierarchy of data here
so a Navigation Controller really wouldn't make sense.
But as these are distinctly related and it would be
logical that they would be in the same application,
we can use the Tab Bar Controller to make it
easier for the user to select the different modes.
So in the same manner that we had in Navigation
Controller acting as our primary View Controller guiding us
through our hierarchy, in this case
we begin with a Tab Bar Controller.
And the Tab Bar Controller manages a collection
of View Controllers that correspond to the tabs
that you will have and be presenting to the user.
So when the user selects a particular tab, the Tab
Bar Controller makes that the Visible View Controller
and if its view is not loaded it would
then indicate that it should load its view,
which presumably would be coming
from an Interface Builder document.
Again, if someone were to select the Alarm tab,
the Alarm View Controller would then become the
primary View Controller and it's view would be loaded
if it wasn't already and the same with the Stop Watch
View Controller and again with the Timer View Controller.
Now if we were constructing this in
Interface Builder, how would this look?
Well, we know that the one-to-one rule is a great guideline,
so for each one of these View Controllers we
would have a different Interface Builder document,
which would provide great separation, would allow us to
construct our interfaces in Interface Builder, dragging,
dropping and making it look exactly the way that we want,
and it would also allow the View Controller
to use its memory management system.
Now in a similar manner that we embedded our Navigation
Controller directly in our Main Window document as we knew
that we would need it immediately and
for the entire life of our application,
we're also going to need the Tab Bar Controller and
we also know exactly what tabs to present to the user.
So we can go ahead and embed those directly in the Tab Bar
Controller and then place the Tab Bar Controller directly
in our Main Window document, bringing our total
number of Interface Builder documents to 5.
So let's return to our demo and this
time modify our Hierarchical Application
and make it more of a Tab Based Application.
Now for this part of the section of
the demo, we're going to use the tabs
to provide the user a way to look
at the data in different ways.
More specifically, we're going to have the first tab
be all of our tasks, the second tab be only the tasks
that are currently in progress, and then
the third tab be just the completed tasks.
So the first step is to take a look
at our Main Window document again
and as we will be needing a Tab Bar Controller, I'm
just going to go back to the Interface Builder library
and drag out an instance and drag
that into our document window.
Now in a similar manner to the Navigation Controller,
the Tab Bar Controller comes pre-populated with a couple
of tabs, so you could go ahead and change these
to your particular sub-classes or use them as-is
or simply change the views that
they'll be loading to load your views.
But we already have everything configured
in the form of our Navigation Controller
with a Table View Controller already embedded within it.
So for now, I'm just going to select
both of these and remove them.
And next, since our initial View Controller will no longer
be our Navigation Controller, but our Tab Bar Controller,
I'm going to disconnect that outlet and
connect it instead to our Tab Bar Controller.
Now I mentioned that the tabs of this Tab Bar
Controller will be different views on our same data,
so we can actually just reuse our same Navigation
Controller with the table view embedded.
So I'm going to select that Navigation Controller, go
to the Edit menu, Duplicate once, and Duplicate again.
This is definitely better than writing code.
And then I'm going to go and drag these just
directly into the tab bar of our Tab Bar Controller.
One, two, three.
There are our three tabs and now a little bit of typing as
this is a little bit hard to understand what's going on.
I'm going to simply double-click in the
Editor for the title of this tab bar item,
change this to All Tasks and then
just Select this and Copy it.
Then hit Return and Editing and then
do the same with the navigation item.
Paste that in, hit Return.
The second one is going to be our In
Progress Tasks, again Select All that,
have to type again, double-click, Paste, Return.
And the final one will be our Completed Tasks.
[ No speaking ]
All right.
So we have the look that we want, we're using our
Navigation Controllers with our Table View Controllers
and we have our titles and everything configured
the way we want, but right as it stands right now,
we have no way to differentiate between these
different tabs in our Tab Bar Controller.
We have no way to say, to know in code which one
of these should be getting which search predicate
or which filter predicate So what we need to do is
make sure that we have a handle on these navigation
or on these View Controllers so we can disinvigorate them.
So to do this I'm going to return to Xcode and
start by taking a look at the To-Do App delegate.
The header file more specifically.
And we're going to need a couple of instance
variables, so I'm going to add these here.
So we'll have the Tasks in Progress Table View
Controller and the Tasks Completed Table View Controller
and we'll have some properties for accessing these
and we're also going to need a At Class statement,
make sure we don't get any build warnings.
So I'll Save this file and now go over to our
implementation file and we're going to have
to synthesize these new properties,
so I'll make sure to do that.
And again, we're going to have to import our Table
View Controller header file and we've got a couple
of more instance variables we want to
make sure to clean up after ourselves.
And then finally here's the actual meat of what we're
doing, modify the application Did Finish Launching method
to set the filter predicates to the appropriate NS
predicates, and this is that filter predicate property
that I kind of glossed over during
the Navigation Controller demo.
And in this case we want to set the Tasks in Progress table
View Controller's predicate to make sure that we are using,
we are seeing only tasks that are not complete, i.e.,
in progress and then the opposite
with our Tasks Completed controller.
So let's make sure to Save these changes.
And I'm going to go back to Interface Builder and
take a look again at our Main Window document.
And we created outlets for these various View Controllers,
but we didn't actually make any of the connections yet.
So I'm going to disclose to make sure I can see
these, the In Progress table View Controller
and the Completed table View Controller,
let's make that a little better.
And I'm going to Control-click on the To-Do
App delegate to bring up the Connections Panel.
And we see that the outlets that we created in
Interface Builder are there and so we can create our,
we can connect our Tasks Completed outlet directly to
our Completed Tasks table View Controller and our Tasks
in Progress outlet to our In Progress table View
Controller, close that, save and return to Xcode.
So now let's Build and Run and take
a look at what it looks like now.
So you can see we again have our Navigation Controller from
our previous section of the demo, but we now have these tabs
and we have all of our various tasks here,
but if we navigate to the In Progress Tasks,
we see only the tasks that are currently in progress
and Completed Tasks again only the
tasks that have been completed.
But all of our searching works correctly and
we can still navigate to our detail views.
So a few key points to take away from this demo.
The first is that again, as our tab bar controller would
be needed at application launch and throughout the life
of our application, we added it directly to our Main Window
Interface Builder document as a static View Controller
and this saved us having to allocate and
initialize this in a particular spot in our code.
We also saw that as we knew exactly which View Controllers
we would have corresponding to each of our tabs,
we could add these directly to the Tab Bar
controller so that we could see the way it would look
in Interface Builder, rearrange them,
easily retitle them and make sure
that everything is going to look exactly the way we want.
And we can rest assured that the views will, as we are using
separate Interface Builder documents for the views of each
of these View Controllers, we can rest assured
that they will only be loaded when needed
and will be unloaded when they are no longer needed.
So we've covered a lot of material here today,
but I hope you get a better understanding
on how you can use Interface Builder to
design really great iPhone applications.
And there's a few key points to remember
when you go off to the labs after this
and start constructing your applications.
The first is that a great way to think about an
iPhone application is a hierarchy of View Controllers
and these could be Tab Bar controllers or
navigation controllers or your own sub-class,
but there's always a lot of View Controllers interacting.
Also good to keep in mind that View
Controllers are responsible for a single view.
There may be additional outlets in your View
Controller sub-class, but a primary view,
which should be associated with
each of these View Controllers.
And the easiest way to construct and compartmentalize
this view is with an Interface Builder document,
so you can construct it in Interface Builder and lay
it out exactly the way you want your users to see it.
And finally, we saw that there's a couple of
different ways to instantiate View Controllers,
for View Controllers we'll need
right away at application launch
or when a particular Interface Builder document is loaded
into memory, we can add these as instances directly
into those documents, simply dragging them from
the Interface Builder library and then set them up
and making sure, as we saw, to configure their views
with the other Interface Builder
documents where we've designed their views.
But we also saw that especially in
the case of our table view example,
we would want to dynamically create these View
Controllers in response to the user's actions.
For more information, please contact Michael Jurewitz
our Developer Tools Evangelist and there's plenty
of great documentation on all the subjects
that we've covered here today, in particular,
the Human Interface Guidelines and
the Interface Builder User Guide.